.ll 6i
.TH TRACK 1 "18 April 1988"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
track \- maintain files between machines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B track
[
.B \- FSTcdfimnpqsvwx
]
.I subscriptionlist
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Track
supports a
.I librarian/subscriber
model of file update.
That is, subscribing machines are able, but not obliged, to stay in synch with
librarian machines' file-system contents.
.PP
The file
.I subscriptionlist
contains a description of those files, directories, devices, & links
which are to be kept up-to-date on the subscriber machines.
The
.I subscriptionlist's
file-system-description must follow a particular syntax,
which is described in subscriptionlist(5).
For a prototype, see the usual default, /srvd/usr/athena/lib/slists/sys_rvd.
The general default is <workdir>/slists/sys_rvd, where <workdir> is
the "local working directory", as described under the -W option below.
.PP
When
.B track
is invoked with the
.B \-w
option (i.e. as the
.I librarian
machine),
.B track
follows the
.I subscriptionlist's
directions to traverse the librarian's file-system, and creates a 
.I statfile(5)
containing currentness information about the files that are available to
subscribing machines.
The
.I statfile's
default path is /srvd/etc/athena/lib/stats/sys_rvd.
The
.I currentness
information recorded in the statfile includes
file-type, mod-time, uid, gid, permissions, device-type, link-value & checksum.
This is a performance-hack, allowing the subscribers to avoid
net-accesses except when librarian files need to be copied.
The
.I statfile
is not particularly legible.
.PP
When
.B track
is invoked without
.B \-w
(i.e. as the
.I subscriber
machine),
the
.I librarian
machine is specified as an NFS mount-point with the -F option
(default: /srvd).
.B Track
uses the
.I subscriptionlist
to decide what local files are to be considered for possible updating.
The
.I statfile
represents the librarian's exported files, and
.B track
uses it to decide whether each local file should be updated:
any differences in currentness will cause
.B track
to update the local file from the librarian's version.
.PP
It is possible for the librarian & subscribers to use different
.I subscriptionlists.
In general, the librarian "exports" a catalog (the 
.I statfile
), and each subscriber may "import" as much or as little of this catalog's
offering as he wishes.
If the librarian's & subscribers'
.I subscriptionlists
differ, only those files which are specified in both lists can be updated.
.PP
.B Track
is unforgiving when writing a statfile, so as to prevent confused updates.
It tries to forgive errors when updating, so as to discourage partial updates.
Any errors are logged in the file /usr/adm/TRACKLOG.
The TRACKLOG is useful for patching an update that breaks.
.PP
The most commonly-used options are:
.TP
.B \-F<fromdir>
Specify the source ( librarian) root-directory or mount-point.
The default value is /srvd.
.TP
.B \-I
Ignore file-protections ( uid, gid, mode-bits) when tracking as a subscriber.
However, if track creates a file on the subscriber,
the copy will get the librarian's copy's protections.
.TP
.B \-T<todir>
Specify the destination root directory, or mount-point. The default is /.
.TP
.B \-W<workdir>
Change the local working directory (i.e. the directory on the local machine) to
.I workdir.
The default is /mnt/etc/athena/lib, where /mnt is the librarian mount-point.
The working directory is the place where
.B track
will look for the
.I subscriptionlist
(default: slists/sys_rvd),
and the
.I statfile
(default: stats/sys_rvd).
In order to write a statfile (-w option),
.B track
must have permission to write in the local working directory.
.TP
.B \-c
When updating,
compare each regular file's checksum with
the corresponding checksum on the librarian-mountpoint.
The librarian's checksums are always recorded in the
.I statfile.
-c slows the update,
but the checksums enable track to detect file-system corruption.
.TP
.B \-f
Force the update.  Don't be gentle about what is destroyed.  Normally
.B track
is very cautious about files being destroyed by an update.
.TP
.B \-n
Do nothing, just produce a list of files that need updating (disabled by \-w),
and the anticipated consequences of doing the update.
This output goes to stderr, but not into the TRACKLOG.
.TP
.B \-s <statfile>
.B \-s -
Use the named file as the statfile, or use stdio if "-s -" is used.
The default is <workdir>/stats/sys_rvd, where <workdir> is the working-dir
specified by the -W option.
.TP
.B \-v
Produces a very verbose description of what is happening during the update:
which files get updated, and why. This output goes to stderr, but not
into the TRACKLOG.
.TP
.B \-w
Write out a
.I statfile.
This flag is always used by the
.I librarian
machine and never used by the
.I subscriber
machine(s).
This option turns on -c.
.PP
The less commonly-used options:
.TP
.B \-d
Include devices and special files in update. 
.TP
.B \-m[recipient]
( Currently broken) Mail stdout and stderr to the recipient.
The default recipient is root.
.TP
.B \-p
Parse only and produce a verbose description of the fields in the
.I subscriptionlist.
This can be useful when
.B track
complains about syntax errors
in the subscriptionlist.
The output goes to stderr.
.TP
.B \-q
Be quiet, i.e. don't complain about non-fatal errors.
The most common non-fatal error occurs when the
.I librarian's
statfile is out-of-date, so that the subscriber tries to import files
which no longer exist on the
.I librarian.
.TP
.B \-x
Display debugging information ( minimal).
.TP
.B \-S <max_path_depth>
Specify deeper path stacks; this is an internal implementation parameter.
.B Track
is supposed to tell you when to use -S, and how to use it.
Since the default depth accomodates pathnames with ~50 components,
this option is seldom used.
.SH EXAMPLES
.in 8
.ti -8
track
.ti -4
Update the local root's contents from the corresponding contents of
/srvd, according to the constraints specified in the default subscriptionlist
& statfile. This is what the Athena script update_ws does.
.ti -8
track \-p daily
.ti -4
Parse the
.I subscriptionlist
named "daily" and print a verbose
listing of the contents. This command is very helpful when trying to debug
freshly modified
.I subscriptionlists. 
.ti -8
track \-w hourly 
.ti -4
Act as the
.I librarian
and output a
.I statfile
for the
.I subscriptionlist
named "hourly".
.sp 1
.ti -8
track hourly \-w \-q
.ti -4
Same as above, but non-fatal errors will be ignored.
.sp 1
.ti -8
attach paris:root
.br
.ti -8
track daily -F/paris/root
.ti -4
Act as a
.I subscriber
machine and get the updates from root directory on the machine named "paris".
.sp 1
.ti -8
track \-n daily
.ti -4
Act as a
.I subscriber,
but do not perform any updates.
Instead, print a listing of the updates that should be made.  This is analogous
to "make \-n".  Invoking 
.B track
with the
.B \-n
flag is a safe way to preview what will happen before
.B track
is turned loose on a new machine.
.sp 1
.ti -8
track -w sys_rvd -s - -F/source \\
.ti -8
.br
 | track sys_rvd -s - -F/source -T/target -c
.ti -4
Backup to /target those of /source's contents that are specified in sys_rvd,
but only if /target has a different version.
It is best to run this on /target's machine, so that only reads are networked.
.in -8
.SH FILES
 /source/4.3/etc.athena/track/*
.br
 /srvd/etc/athena/lib/slists/sys_rvd
.br
 /srvd/etc/athena/lib/stats/sys_rvd
.br
 /usr/adm/TRACKLOG
.br
 /tmp/sys_rvd.started
.SH SEE ALSO
subscriptionlist(5), statfile(5), permissions(5), cron(8)
.PP
When Network File Systems Aren't Enough: Automatic File Distribution Revisited
.br
.ti 5
by Daniel Nachbar
.SH AUTHOR
Daniel Nachbar (AT&T);
rewritten for bug-fixing, speed, -c option, & extra link-support
by Don Davis (Athena); NFS-conversion done by Rob French (Athena).
.SH BUGS
.br
-m option doesn't work.
.sp 1
If, under -n, the subscriptionlist-entry's topmost target directory
doesn't exist,
the simulated update raises many more errors than would the true update.
.sp 1
Needs a -C (comparison mount-point) option.
.sp 1
Can't handle pathnames longer than 256 chars.
