.\" $Id: attachtab.5,v 1.2 1999-03-23 18:47:34 danw Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1997 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
.\" software and its documentation for any purpose and without
.\" fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
.\" notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the
.\" software without specific, written prior permission.
.\" M.I.T. makes no representations about the suitability of
.\" this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.TH ATTACHTAB 5
.SH NAME
/var/athena/attachtab/ \- Files used by liblocker
.SH DESCRIPTION
The attachtab directory contains two files and three directories used
by liblocker to keep track of attached filesystems.
.PP
.TP 8
.B /var/athena/attachtab/.lock
This is used as a lock file to synchronize access to the
.B locker
and
.B mountpoint
directories, which record attached lockers.
.TP 8
.B /var/athena/attachtab/.dirlock
This is used to synchronize access to the
.B directory
subdirectory, which records directories that have been created by
liblocker.
.TP 8
.B /var/athena/attachtab/mountpoint
This directory contains a file for each locker that has been attached.
The files each consist of 9 lines containing the following data:
.PP
.RS 10
.nf
version number (currently 1)
locker name
mountpoint
filesystem type (eg AFS, NFS)
IP address of the filesystem host (or 0.0.0.0)
path to the locker or hostname:path
authentication mode (one of 'r', 'w', 'n', or 'm')
flags (from the locker_attachent \fIflags\fP field)
# of owners:owner uid:owner uid:...
.fi
.RE
.TP 8
.B /var/athena/attachtab/locker
This directory contains symlinks to the
.B mountpoint
directory; for each named locker which is attached on its normal
mountpoint, there will be a symlink from the locker name in the
.B locker
directory to the locker mountpoint in the
.B mountpoint
directory.
.TP 8
.B /var/athena/attachtab/directory
This directory contains an empty file for each directory which
liblocker has created. This information is used to ensure that created
directories are later removed when all of the filesystems mounted in
them are detached.
.PP
Filenames in the
.B mountpoint
and
.B directory
subdirectories are directory names with slashes replaced by "_=" and
underscores replaced by "__".
.SH FILES
The location of the attachtab directory can be overridden by the
.B attachtab
option in
.I /etc/athena/attach.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
attach.conf(5), attach(1), locker_attach(3),
locker_iterate_attachtab(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Dan Winship, MIT Information Systems
.br
Copyright 1998 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
