.\" $Id: locker_init.3,v 1.3 1999-10-19 20:26:02 danw Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1997 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
.\" software and its documentation for any purpose and without
.\" fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
.\" notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the
.\" software without specific, written prior permission.
.\" M.I.T. makes no representations about the suitability of
.\" this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.TH LOCKER_INIT 3
.SH NAME
locker_init \- Initialize liblocker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <locker.h>
.PP
.B
typedef int (*locker_error_fun)(void *\fIdata\fP, char *\fIfmt\fP,
.B
	va_list \fIarg\fP);
.PP
.B
int locker_init(locker_context *\fIcontextp\fP, uid_t \fIuser\fP,
.B
	locker_error_fun \fIerrfun\fP, void *\fIerrdata\fP)
.PP
.B cc file.c -llocker ...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function initializes liblocker, by reading the attachtab file and
storing the data from it into the locker context variable pointed to
by
.I contextp\fP.
.PP
The
.I user
argument indicates the user that liblocker will be attaching and
detaching lockers on behalf of. The library will take care of
switching the process's effective uid to and from the user's uid as
needed to verify access to files and directories.
.PP
.I errfun
and
.I errdata
are used for displaying liblocker error messages.
.I errfun
should be a function like
.BR vfprintf (3).
It will be called with
.I errdata
as its first argument. If you pass NULL for
.I errfun
then it will default to
.B vfprintf\fP,
with
.I errdata
set to
.B stderr\fP.
.PP
In addition to the data from attach.conf and the function arguments,
.I locker_init
also stores a pointer to a Hesiod context and a Zephyr windowgram port
in the locker context. (If it cannot find a windowgram port, it will
not return an error message until the windowgram port is actually
needed for some liblocker operation.)
.PP
Before calling any liblocker routines that may access attachtab files,
the caller should set the process signal mask (with
.BR sigprocmask (2)
) to block SIGTSTP, SIGTTOU, and SIGTTIN if there is any chance the
process will get those signals.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.I locker_init
may return the following values:
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_SUCCESS
The initialization succeeded.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_EATTACHCONF
The library was unable to parse some line in attach.conf.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_EHESIOD
The library was unable to initialize the Hesiod library.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_ENOMEM
Memory was exhausted.
.SH FILES
/etc/athena/attach.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
locker_end(3), attach.conf(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Dan Winship, MIT Information Systems
.br
Copyright 1998 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
