.\" $Id: locker_do_zsubs.3,v 1.1 1999-03-29 17:34:17 danw Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1997 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
.\" software and its documentation for any purpose and without
.\" fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
.\" notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the
.\" software without specific, written prior permission.
.\" M.I.T. makes no representations about the suitability of
.\" this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.TH LOCKER_DO_ZSUBS 3
.SH NAME
locker_do_zsubs \- Process locker-related Zephyr subscriptions/unsubscriptions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <locker.h>
.PP
.B
int locker_do_zsubs(locker_context \fIcontext\fP, int \fIop\fP)
.PP
.B cc file.c -llocker ...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function processes the pending Zephyr subscription or
unsubscription requests queued up by earlier liblocker operations.
\fIcontext\fP should be a valid locker context, and \fIop\fP should be
one of the two constants \fILOCKER_ZEPHYR_SUBSCRIBE\fP or
\fILOCKER_ZEPHYR_UNSUBSCRIBE\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.I locker_do_zsubs
may return the following values:
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_SUCCESS
The operations succeeded.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_EZEPHYR
An error occurred in the Zephyr library.
.SH SEE ALSO
locker_init(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Dan Winship, MIT Information Systems
.br
Copyright 1998 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
