.\" $Id: locker_auth.3,v 1.2 1999-03-27 17:33:59 danw Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1997 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
.\" software and its documentation for any purpose and without
.\" fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
.\" notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the
.\" software without specific, written prior permission.
.\" M.I.T. makes no representations about the suitability of
.\" this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.TH LOCKER_AUTH 3
.SH NAME
locker_auth, locker_auth_to_host, locker_auth_to_cell \- Authenticate
to filesystems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <locker.h>
.PP
.B
int locker_auth(locker_context \fIcontext\fP, 
.B
	char *\fIfilesystem\fP, int \fIop\fP);
.B
int locker_auth_to_host(locker_context \fIcontext\fP, 
.B
	char *\fIname\fP, char *\fIhost\fP, int \fIop\fP);
.B
int locker_auth_to_cell(locker_context \fIcontext\fP,
.B
	char *\fIname\fP, char *\fIcell\fP, int \fIop\fP);
.PP
.B cc file.c -llocker ...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions are used to authenticate to filesystems. For all of
these functions, the
.I op
argument is one of the following values defined in locker.h:
.RS 8
.TP 8
.I LOCKER_AUTH_AUTHENTICATE
Authenticate to the filesystem.
.TP 8
.I LOCKER_AUTH_UNAUTHENTICATE
Suggest that liblocker dispose of authentication to the filesystem.
(The filesystem-specific code may ignore this suggestion.)
.TP 8
.I LOCKER_AUTH_PURGEUSER
Ask the remote server to purge all mappings for the user from all
hosts. (Only meaningful for Kerberized NFS.) This option can only be
used by trusted users, as specified in
.BR attach.conf (5)
.TP 8
.I LOCKER_AUTH_PURGE
Ask the remote server to purge all mappings for this host. (Only
meaningful for Kerberized NFS.)
.RE
.PP
.B locker_auth
attempts to perform the given operation to the named locker, which
must be attached.
.B locker_auth_to_host
attempts a Kerberized NFS authentication operation to the given host.
.B locker_auth_to_cell
authenticates to the named AFS cell.
.PP
For
.B locker_auth_to_host
and
.B locker_auth_to_cell\fP,
.I name
is the name of a locker or program which will be used in any error
messages it prints.
.SH RETURN VALUES
The auth functions can return the following values:
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_SUCCESS
The operation was succesfully performed (or ignored).
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_EAUTH
Authentication failed.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_EUNKNOWN
No such filesystem.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_EHESIOD
Error looking up locker in Hesiod.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_EPARSE
Unable to parse filesystem description.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_EPERM
Untrusted user attempted privileged operation.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_EATTACHTAB
Error creating or reading the attachtab entry corresponding to this
locker.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_ENOMEM
Memory was exhausted.
.SH SEE ALSO
locker_init(3), locker_attach(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Dan Winship, MIT Information Systems
.br
Copyright 1998 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
