.\" $Id: locker_zsubs.3,v 1.1 1999-02-26 19:05:14 danw Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1997 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
.\" software and its documentation for any purpose and without
.\" fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
.\" notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the
.\" software without specific, written prior permission.
.\" M.I.T. makes no representations about the suitability of
.\" this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.TH LOCKER_ZSUBS 3
.SH NAME
locker_zsubs \- Deal with zephyr subscriptions for a locker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <locker.h>
.PP
.B
void locker_zsubs(locker_context *\fIcontext\fP,
.B
	char *\fIfilesystem\fP, int \fIop\fP)
.PP
.B cc file.c -llocker ...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function adds or removes zephyr subscriptions associated with a
locker. The
.I op
argument should be either
.I LOCKER_ZEPHYR_SUBSCRIBE
or
.I LOCKER_ZEPHYR_UNSUBSCRIBE,
and
.I filesystem
should be the name of an attached filesystem.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.B locker_zsubs
can return the following values:
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_SUCCESS
The operation was succesfully performed.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_EZEPHYR
An error occurred in the zephyr library.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_EUNKNOWN
No such filesystem.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_EHESIOD
Error looking up locker in Hesiod.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_EPARSE
Unable to parse filesystem description.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_EPERM
Untrusted user attempted privileged operation.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_EATTACHTAB
Error creating or reading the attachtab entry corresponding to this
locker.
.TP 15
.I LOCKER_ENOMEM
Memory was exhausted.
.SH SEE ALSO
locker_init(3), locker_attach(3), zephyr(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Dan Winship, MIT Information Systems
.br
Copyright 1998 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
