.\" $Id: locker_read_attachent.3,v 1.1 1999-02-26 19:05:14 danw Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1997 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
.\" software and its documentation for any purpose and without
.\" fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
.\" notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the
.\" software without specific, written prior permission.
.\" M.I.T. makes no representations about the suitability of
.\" this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.TH LOCKER_READ_ATTACHENT 3
.SH NAME
locker_read_attachent \- Dispose of a locker_attachent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <locker.h>
.PP
.B
int locker_read_attachent(locker_context \fIcontext\fP, char *\fIname\fP,
.B
	locker_attachent **\fIatp\fP)
.PP
.B cc file.c -llocker ...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function reads in the attachtab file for the named locker (which
must be currently attached), and returns a
.I locker_attachent
for it.
.PP
A
.I locker_attachent
has at least the following fields:
.TP 8
.B char *\fIname\fP
The name of the locker (or the description, for an
explicitly-specified locker).
.TP 8
.B char *\fImountpoint\fP
The mountpoint the locker is attached on.
.TP 8
.B struct locker_ops *\fIfs\fP
A pointer to filesystem-specific data. The name of the filesystem type
is \fIfs->name\fP.
.TP 8
.B struct in_addr \fIhostaddr\fP
The address of the host the filesystem is on.
.TP 8
.B char *\fIhostdir\fP
The location of the filesystem on its host. (For NFS lockers, this is
actually hostname:path.)
.TP 8
.B int \fImode\fP
The default authentication mode for this filesystem. One of
\fBLOCKER_AUTH_NONE\fP, \fBLOCKER_AUTH_READONLY\fP,
\fBLOCKER_AUTH_READWRITE\fP, or \fBLOCKER_AUTH_MAYBE_READWRITE\fP, as
explained in
.BR locker_attach (3)
.TP 8
.B uid_t *\fIowners\fP
A list of uids of users who have attached this locker.
.TP 8
.B int \fInowners\fP
The length of the
.I owners
array.
.TP 8
.B int \fIflags\fP
A bitfield which may have the following bits set:
.RS 8
.TP 12
.B LOCKER_FLAG_LOCKED
The locker is locked (via LOCKER_ATTACH_OPT_LOCK).
.TP 12
.B LOCKER_FLAG_KEEP
The locker will not be detached from the filesystem when it is
detached. (See the "keep-mount" option in
.BR attach.conf (5)
)
.TP 12
.B LOCKER_FLAG_NOSUID
The locker was attached without LOCKER_ATTACH_OPT_ALLOW_SETUID. (This
information is kept because it used in certain outputs of the attach
program.)
.TP 12
.B LOCKER_FLAG_NAMEFILE
The locker has a file in the "lockers" subdirectory of the attachtab
directory; that is, it is a named locker which has been attached on
its default mountpoint.
.RE
.PP
The data in the
.I locker_attachent
should be treated as read-only by callers.
.SH SEE ALSO
locker_free_attachent(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Dan Winship, MIT Information Systems
.br
Copyright 1998 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
