.TH SCROLLKEEPER 7 "Dec 5, 2001" "scrollkeeper"
.SH NAME
ScrollKeeper \- An open document cataloging and metadata management
system.


.SH DESCRIPTION
ScrollKeeper is a system for managing document metadata.  
Its primary function is to act as a card catalog for documents, keeping
track of what documents are available, where they can be found, and
various attributes of the documents such as their language, format, 
subject, version, and position in a contents list.  It also manages
other metadata such as document indices.

ScrollKeeper acts as a middle layer between applications and help browsers.
When applications install documentation, the documentation is registered
with ScrollKeeper.  Any ScrollKeeper-aware help browser on the system
can then access this information.  In this way, ScrollKeeper is a 
compatibility layer which allows any help browser to interface to all
the documentation on a system, provided the package which ships the
documentation registers it with ScrollKeeper.  It also removes much of the
burden from application packagers and help browser developers by providing
a standard set of tools and by doing much of the work inside of ScrollKeeper.

.SH RESOURCES
The ScrollKeeper web pages can be found at 
http://scrollkeeper.sourceforge.net and the mailing list can be found
at http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/scrollkeeper-devel.

.SH AVAILABILITY
ScrollKeeper is licensed under the GNU Lesser Public License (LGPL).
A copy of this license can be read in the file COPYING shipped
with ScrollKeeper.

The latest version of ScrollKeeper can be found at 
http://sourceforge.net/projects/scrollkeeper.

.SH FILES
.I /etc/scrollkeeper.conf
.br
.I /var/log/scrollkeeper.log
.br
.I /var/lib/scrollkeeper/*

.SH AUTHOR
Laszlo Kovacs   <laszlo.kovacs@sun.com>
.br
Dan Mueth       <d-mueth@uchicago.edu>

.SH SEE ALSO
scrollkeeper-config(1),
scrollkeeper-gen-seriesid(1),
scrollkeeper.conf(5),
scrollkeeper-preinstall(8),
scrollkeeper-rebuilddb(8) 
scrollkeeper-update(8) 

