.TH IFHP 8 "ifhp-3.2.7"
.SH NAME
ifhp \- Almost Universal LPRng Print Filter
.\" $Id: ifhp.8,v 1.1.1.3 1999-05-04 18:50:48 mwhitson Exp $
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ifhp
.br
[-F format]
[-s statusfile]
[-?value (other LPRng filter options)]
.br
.br
[-Z[options[,options]*]*
.br
[-T[options[,options]*]*
.br
[accountingfile]
.br
.sp
.BR ofhp "(symbolic link to ifhp)"
.br
.sp
.BR banner_pr "(symbolic link to ifhp)"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B ifhp
is a general purpose filter for 
allmost all PostScript, PJL, PCL, and text based line printers.
.LP
.B ifhp
can be used as print spooler filter or as a banner page generator.
The
.BR -F o 
option or 
.B ofhp
executable name selects the 
.B OF
operation,
and the
.B banner
executable name or
.BR -T banner_only
option selects banner printing.
.LP
When used as a print filter,
.B ifhp 
resets and synchronizes  the printer,
gets accounting information,
and then checks the file to determine its format.
Based on the format,
it will do PCL, PostScript, or other initializations,
and then transfer the file to the printer.
Next,
termination sequences are sent,
followed by getting accounting information.
.SH "OPTIONS AND CONFIGURATION"
.LP
Options controlling
.B ifhp
operations are specified by
.BR -T option
or
.BR -Z option
values.
These options have the form:
.nf
Form          Same As
flag          flag=1
flag@         flag=0
flag=str  
flag#str
.LP
The complete set of options and their effect on operation are detailed
in the IFHP-HOWTO document.
The following is a brief list of the more important ones that will
have a dramatic effect on printer operation.
.sp .5v
.TP
.BR model	=modelid
.br
Specifies the printer modelid information.
This is used to select an appropriate configuration from the ifhp configuration file.
.TP
.BR config=path,path,...
.br
pathnames of configuration files to read to obtain printer configuration information.
.TP
.BR banner_only
.br
Operate in banner only mode.
This will generate a banner that can be used on other printers.
.TP
.BR banner =type
.br
The type of banner to generate.
Type can be pcl, ps, or text.
.TP
.BR debug  =debuglevel
Set the debugging level.
A larger number causes more verbose error messages.
You have been warned.
.TP
.BR trace
.br
Sends out debugging and tracing information on STDERR as well as to the status
log file.
.SH "STATUS AND ACCOUNTING"
.LP
The IFHP filter will generate status information and appends it to the status file
specified by the
.B -s
command line
flag or the
configuration file
.BR statusfile =/path
entry.
The
.B trace
flag will cause the information to be printed on STDERR.
If the status file does not exist,  it will not be created.
.LP
During normal operation,
accounting information will be put into the accounting file specified on the
command line.
If the accounting file does not exist,  it will not be created.
.SH "Z OPTIONS"
The PLP and LPRng software 
.B lpr
programs pass the -Z option to the filter.
These are recognized when printing a non-binary file.
For example if duplex printing and a font needs to be downloaded,
this can be requested with the -Z option as:
.sp .5v
.B 	lpr -P<printer> -Z'duplex,font=/absolutepath' <file> 
.sp .5v
.LP
For a complete list of the options recognized by LPRng,
see the IFHP Documentation.

.SH "BANNERS AND OF MODE"
The
.B ifhp
filter can also be used as an OF printer.
If invoked with the name
.B ofhp
or with the
.B -Fo
option,
it will assume that it is being used as an OF filter
and scan the input for a special stop sequence \e031\e011.
When it finds the sequence it will suspend itself;
the spooler will restart the filter when it has more output for it. 
.LP
When running in OF mode,
the
.B ifhp
filter can also print banners.
The first line sent to the OF filter will cause a banner to be printed.
The banner information will be obtained from either the command line options
or the first line sent to the printer.
This line should have the format:
.sp
class:username option:value option:value value ... option:value ....
.sp
Example:
.br
host: hostname user: username  job: job information class: class
.sp
.LP
In addition,
the ifhp printer can be used as a banner page generator.
By using the
.BR -T banner_only
option or invoking it with a command name of banner,
only the command line information is used to produce a banner.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.B "/etc/ifhp.conf, ./ifhp.conf"
.br
Configuration files
.TP
.B "/usr/local/lib/filters//ifhp, ofhp, banner"
.TP
.B /usr/local/lib/filters//accounting.sh
.br
Executables.
.TP
.B /usr/local/lib/filters//banner.ps
PostScript banner file
.B 
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
The IFHP-HOWTO document,
which is included as part of the IFHP distribution.
This is the principle reference for this filter.
.sp
.LP
.BR lpd (8),
.BR lpq (1),
.BR lpr (1),
.BR lprm (1),
.BR hosts (5),
.BR printcap (5),
.BR lpc (8).
.sp
.LP
.nf
FTP sites: ftp://ftp.astart.com/pub/LPRng
.sp
.LP
WEB sites: http://www.astart.com/pub/LPRng
.sp
.LP
Mailing List.  Send email to lprng-request@iona.ie
with the word 'subscribe' in the boyd.
.SH "BUGS"
.LP
They are not bugs.  They are mis-documented features.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP
The IFHP filter was inspired by the LPRng CTI-ifhp filter,
which was a descendent of the print filters developed by the
.B CTI-Print 
project at the 
.B Division of Computing Facilities 
of the 
.B Computer Technology Institute (CTI), Patras, Greece.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
Patrick Powell,
Astart Technologies,
San Diego, CA
<papowell@astart.com>
