.TH DBSERV 1 "24 August 1987" "Project Athena"
.SH NAME
dbserv - GDB Database Server Program
.SH SYNOPSIS
dbserv <-sxxxxx> <-lyyyyy>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dbserv
is a server program which can support shared access to an Ingres relational
database from clients through a Berkeley Unix TCP network.  Client programs are written using
the GDB database library (libgdb.a).  Clients may be on any machine type
supported by GDB regardless of the machine type on which dbserv is running.

The -s option is used to specify the service name (from /etc/services) to
be used by the dbserv program.  An absolute port number may also be given
in the form -s#nnnn, where nnnn is the decimal port number.

The -l option is used to name a log file in which an extensive record
of remote accesses to the database will be kept.  This is useful both for
debugging and for monitoring use of the database.  Note that use of the
-l option potentially invades the privacy of individual users of the database.
Before using the -l option for a publicly available database service at
MIT, the MIT Committee on Privacy should be consulted.

Full information on dbserv and the GDB library is contained in the
.I GDB User Guide
and the
.I GDB Library Reference Manual.
.SH BUGS
Clients effectively inherit the Ingres privileges of the user-id running
the server.  For this reason, it is sometimes useful to run the server
setuid.

Other bugs are documented in the User Guide.
.SH SEE ALSO
gdb(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Noah Mendelsohn, IBM T.J. Watson Research and MIT Project Athena
.br
Copyright 1987 Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
