=head1 NAME

jlocate - display contacts and their current status

=head1 SYNOPSIS

jlocate [ -h ] [ -d <flags> ] [ -e ] [ -a ] [ -g ] [ -n ] [ -o ] [ accountname ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<Jlocate> is used to display a list of contacts and their availability.
If an I<accountname> is specified, I<jlocate> will check only accounts
that match the name you specify.  It tries to match as many accounts as
possible unless you specify the B<-e> option.  Otherwise, it performs it's
default behavior of retrieving the full contact list.  By default, this is
limited to only those that are online.  However, the various options
described below can alter the output style.

I<Jlocate> understands the following options:

-h             Displays usage information.

-d <flags>     Debugging output.  Run without <flags> for usage.

-e             Exact match on account name (no effect if none specified).

-a             Show full contact list (including unavailable and unknown).

-g             Show contacts organized by group.

-n             Swap nickname and jid positions in the listings.

-o             Omit extra information (nickname or jid, dependent on -n)

=head1 AUTHOR

Daniel Henninger <jadestorm@users.sourceforge.net>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2002 Daniel Henninger. All right reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the terms explained in the B<LICENSE>
file that comes with the I<jwgc> distribution.

=head1 SEE ALSO

jwgc(1), jwrite(1), jctl(1), jstat(1)
