.\" This file uses -man macros.
.\"	@(#)printf.3s	6.3 (Berkeley) 6/5/86
.\"
.TH UNLOG 1V "Sept 15, 1987" "PRPQ 5799-CGZ: IBM 4.3/RT, Rel 1 " " "
.SH NAME
unlog - Tell the 
.I Andrew Cache Manager 
to delete some or all of the user's Andrew File System authentication information.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unlog 
[-p]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command enables a user to inform the 
.I Andrew Cache Manager 
that he or she wishes to delete the authentication tokens created by such programs as 
.I login(1), log(1), or su(1).  
Without these tokens, the user will not be able to access or modify his protected files
until he or she re-authenticates.
.PP
Without an argument, 
.I unlog 
causes tokens to be dropped for all of the user's PAGs 
.I (Process Authentication Groups).  
Use of the 
.I -p 
argument results in the destruction of only the tokens in the current PAG.  This is an
important distinction, affecting the performance of various Andrew server programs that
require the user's tokens to operate correctly.  For example, the 
.I Queuemail 
server requires the user's tokens to deliver authenticated mail in his or her behalf.  If the user
sends a piece of mail and performs an 
.I unlog 
before 
.I Queuemail 
can complete its work, the mail may be delayed or even be delivered multiple times.  Since 
.I Queuemail 
is in a different PAG from the user it is representing, 
.I unlog -p 
allows the user to dispose of his or her tokens without affecting the mail delivery server.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
login(1), su(1), log(1)
