.TH bug-buddy 1 "February 14, 2001"
.SH NAME
bug-buddy - graphical bug reporting tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
bug-buddy [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bug-buddy
is a graphical bug reporting tool for 
.B GNOME.
The goal of 
.B Bug Buddy
is to make reporting bugs very simple and easy for 
the user, while making the reports themselves more 
useful and informative for the developer.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --name=NAME
Name of contact
.TP
.BI --email=EMAIL
Email address of contact
.TP
.BI --package=PACKAGE
Package containing the program
.TP
.BI --package-ver=VERSION
Version of the package
.TP
.BI --appname=FILE
Filename of the crashed program
.TP
.BI --pid=PID
PID of the crashed program
.TP
.BI --core=FILE
Core file from program
.TP
.BI --include=FILE
Text file to include in the report
.SH LICENSE
Copyright (C) 1999-2002 Jacob Berkman
Copyright 2000, 2001, 2002 Ximian, Inc.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it 
and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public 
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later 
version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be 
useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied 
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more 
details. 
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public 
License along with this program; if not, write to the Free 
Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, 
Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.SH AUTHOR
Jacob Berkman <jacob@bug-buddy.org>
.PP
This manual page was written by David LaBissoniere,
<labisso@debian.org> for the Debian GNU/Linux system
(but may be used by others).
