.TH SCROLLKEEPER.CONF 5 "Dec 5, 2001" "ScrollKeeper"
.SH NAME
scrollkeeper.conf \- ScrollKeeper configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
System-wide configuration of ScrollKeeper

.SH DESCRIPTION
The system-wide scrollkeeper.conf file is typically installed at 
/etc/scrollkeeper.conf.
It stores the default OMF paths which are searched by 
.I scrollkeeper-update (8)
to update the ScrollKeeper documentation catalog.  The paths are held by the
OMF_DIR variable which is assigned to a colon (:) delimited list of paths.

Comment lines begin with the (#) character. 

.SH EXAMPLE
A typical scrollkeeper.conf file will look like:
.nf
.sp
.ft CW
# Comment
OMF_DIR=/usr/share/omf:/usr/local/share/omf:/opt/gnome/share/omf:/opt/gnome-2.0/share/omf:/opt/kde/omf
.sp
.fi

.SH NOTES 
Any user on the system is able to use the 
.I scrollkeeper-update (8)
command to generate a ScrollKeeper database at any
path that the user has write permission to.
The user can over-ride the system default OMF_DIR path variable
by setting a shell variable of the same name, OMF_DIR.  In this way, a
user can create a document catalog which contains a superset of the system 
documentation, or a completely independent set of documents which the 
user may be interested in.

Note that most applications will register its documentation at install time,
and unregister it at uninstall time.  Thus, a user who keeps their own 
personal ScrollKeeper database may need to periodically run
.I scrollkeeper-update (8)
manually (or with cron) to keep their database up-to-date.

.SH AUTHOR
Laszlo Kovacs   <laszlo.kovacs@sun.com>
.br
Dan Mueth       <d-mueth@uchicago.edu>

.SH SEE ALSO
scrollkeeper-config(1),
scrollkeeper-gen-seriesid(1),
scrollkeeper(7),
scrollkeeper-preinstall(8),
scrollkeeper-rebuilddb(8),
scrollkeeper-update(8)

