=head1 NAME

jctl - control the Jwgc session

=head1 SYNOPSIS

jctl [ -h ] [ -d <flags> ] command < args... >

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<Jctl> is used to control the status of the Jwgc process.  It operates
by accepting a command and various args from the command line.  The commands
are listed and explained below, as well as the few options.  Note that when
a jid is requested that it is important to specify the full jid.  This includes
contacts behind transports.  For example, if you know someone in AIM called
NinjaMan3 and you wanted to subscribe to their presence, you might type:

S<jctl subscribe NinjaMan3@aim.jabber.somewhere.org>

=head2 OPTIONS

I<Jctl> understands the following options:

-h             Displays usage information.

-d <flags>     Debugging output.  Run without <flags> for usage.

The debugging output referred to above is for I<jctl>, not I<jwgc>.  The
I<debug> command below affects I<jwgc>.

=head2 COMMANDS

I<jctl> understands the following commands:

help                   Displays usage information

	Same as -h.

reread                 Reread description file ($HOME/.jwgc.desc)

	This command triggers I<jwgc> to reread this description file
	and incorporate any changes you have made to it since the last
	time it was read (which is normally when I<jwgc> is first
	invoked.  The description file is explained in detail in
	jwgc.desc(5).

subscribe I<jid>          Subscribe to a user's presence

	This triggers I<jwgc> to subscribe you to the presence of
	the I<jid> you specify, thereby adding them to your contact
	list.

unsubscribe I<jid>        Unsubscribe from a user's presence

	This triggers I<jwgc> to unsubscribe you from the presence of
	the I<jid> you specify, thereby removing them from your contact
	list.  The same rules apply here that apply to I<subscribe>.

nickname I<jid> I<nick>      Gives a contact a nickname

	This triggers I<jwgc> to set a nickname on a contact.  This
	nickname can then be used to refer to the contact from I<jwrite>
	and will be show in many of the output formats of I<jlocate>.
	If you want to remove a nickname from a contact, you can leave
	off I<nick>.

group I<jid> I<group>        Puts a contact in a group

	This triggers I<jwgc> to make a contact a member of a group.
	This can be show via the -g option of I<jlocate> and can help
	you organize your contact list.  If you want to remove a contact
	from a group, you can leave off I<group>.

join I<jid>                  Join conference chatroom

	Joins a chat room identified by the jid.  The jid is normally
	something like roomname@hostname/nickname.  Nickname is what
	you would like to be called in the chat room.
	Eg: jdev@conference.jabber.org/chatguy

leave I<jid>                 Leave conference chatroom

	Leaves a chat room identified by the jid.  The jid is normally
	something like roomname@hostname.  Eg: help@conference.jabber.org.

debug I<debugflags>          Configures jwgc debugging output

	Allows you to change debugging flags on the fly.  Takes the
	same style of flags as the -d option.  Note that this adjusts
	jwgc, not jctl.

set I<var> I<setting>        Set variable

	This sets a variable in the currently running jwgc.

show I<var>                  Show variable setting

	This shows the current setting of the specified variable
	in the currently running jwgc.

shutdown               Log off of Jabber server and shut down I<jwgc>

	This triggers I<jwgc> to log you off of the Jabber server and
	shut itself down.  You should use this to shut down and log off
	cleanly.

register I<jid>        Register with a transport

	This triggers I<jwgc> to register you with a transport.  You
	should use the jid of the transport, not the "name".
	You should check I<jstat> to see what transports are
	available.  This will return a form for you to fill out
        if the transport allows registration.

search I<jid>          Search a transport

        This triggers I<jwgc> to perform a search with the specified
        transport I<jid>.  This will return a form for you to fill you
        with search parameters.

debug I<flags>         Alter debug flags

        Allows you to change debug flags on the fly by specifying them
        just as you would from the command line.  This only affects the
        debugging state of I<jwgc> and is modifying what is already set.
        For instance, if you have the I<jab> debugging flag turned on,
        and you specify I<-jab> to I<jctl debug>, you will turn off
        jabber communication debugging output and will not affect any
        other debugging flags.

=head1 AUTHOR

Daniel Henninger <jadestorm@users.sourceforge.net>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2002 Daniel Henninger. All right reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the terms explained in the B<LICENSE>
file that comes with the I<jwgc> distribution.

=head1 SEE ALSO

jwgc(1), jwrite(1), jctl(1), jlocate(1)
