.TH INTLTOOL-MERGE 8 "February 14, 2002" "intltool"

.SH NAME
intltool-merge \- merge translated strings into various file 
types such as XML

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "intltool-merge"
[
.BR \-v | --version
] [
.BR \-h | --help
] [
.BR \-q | --quiet
] [
.BR \-d | --desktop-style
] [
.BR \-k | --keys-style
] [
.BR \-o | --oaf-style
] [
.BR \-x | --xml-style
] [
.BR \-u | --utf8
] [
.BR \-p | --pass-through
]
.IR PO_DIRECTORY
.IR FILENAME
.IR OUTPUT_FILE


.SH DESCRIPTION
Merge translated strings in po files in \fIPO_DIRECTORY\fP 
with the original application file \fIFILENAME\fP, 
and output the file \fIOUTPUT_FILE\fP containing both the original
and the localized strings.
.br
Afterwards the application xml file will contain repeated xml-nodes
where each one contains one of all translations and a xml:lang
attribute.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v, \--version
Show version information.
.TP
.B \-h, \--help
Show usage and basic help information.
.TP
.B \-q, \--quiet
Be quiet while running.
.TP
.B \-d, \--desktop-style
Merge files in desktop style, which is similar to
the Windows .ini file format.
.TP
.B \-k, \--keys-style
Merge files in the keys style, which is used for metadata.
.TP
.B \-x, \--oaf-style
Merge files in the oaf style.
.TP
.B \-x, \--xml-style
Merge files in the XML style, both as attributes and as
raw pcdata.
.TP
.B \-u, \--utf8
Convert all strings to UTF-8 before merging.
.TP
.B \-p, \--pass-through
Use strings as found in .po files, without conversion
(STRONGLY unrecommended with -x).

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to http://bugzilla.gnome.org or by sending email
to xml-i18n-tools@gnome.org.

.SH AUTHOR
Darin Adler           <darin@bentspoon.com>
.br
Kenneth Christiansen  <kenneth@gnu.org>
.br
Maciej Stachowiak     <mjs@eazel.com>


.SH SEE ALSO
intltoolize(8), xml-18n-prepare(8), intltool-extract(8), intltool-update(8)
