.TH XSCREENSAVER-BUTTON 1 "23-Feb-99 (1.00)" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xss-button \- display a button to run xss
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xss-button
[
.B \-xss
.I command
] [
.B \-activate
.I command
] [
.B \-prefs
.I command
] [
.B \-logoWidth
.I width
] [
.B \-logoHeight
.I height
] [
.B \-redirect
|
.B \-noredirect
] [
.B \-logFile
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR xss (1)
program waits until the keyboard and mouse have been idle for a
period, then runs a graphics demo chosen at random.  It turns off as
soon as there is any mouse or keyboard activity.  This program should
be used to lock your terminal in order to prevent others from using
it.
.PP
.I xss-button
displays a convenient front-end to
.BR xss (1).
It displays a button with the xss logo.  Clicking the left
mouse button on the logo will activate the screen saver.  Clicking the
middle or right mouse button will pop up a menu, which will allow you
to activate the screen saver, configure it, restart it, or exit
.IR xss-button .
.SH OPTIONS
.I xss-button
accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options along with
the additional options listed below:
.TP 8
\fB\-xss\fP \fIcommand\fP
Runs
.I command
as the screen saver driver.  Defaults to running the installed
.BR xss (1) with the -no-splash option.
.TP 8
\fB\-activate\fP \fIcommand\fP
Runs
.I command
as the command to activate the screen saver.  Defaults to running the
installed
.BR xss-command (1)
with the
.B \-lock
switch.
.TP 8
\fB\-prefs\fP \fIcommand\fP
Runs
.I command
as the command to change screen saver preferences.  Defaults to
running the installed
.BR xss-demo (1).
.TP 8
\fB\-logoWidth\fP \fIwidth\fP
Sets the width of the
.RB skull-and- xlogo (1)
icon.  This also indirectly sets the width of the button window, and
is probably more useful than using the canonical
.B \-width
switch.  Defaults to 48.
.TP 8
\fB\-logoHeight\fP \fIheight\fP
Sets the height of the
.RB skull-and- xlogo (1)
icon.  This also indirectly sets the height of the button window, and
is probably more useful than using the canonical
.B \-height
switch.  Defaults to 48.
.TP 8
.B\-redirect
Causes standard output and standard error of all child processes to be 
redirected to a file.
.TP 8
.B\-noredirect
Standard output and standard error will not be redirected.  The
default is to redirect.
.TP 8
\fB\-logFile\fP \fIfile\fP
If standard output and standard error are redirected, sends the output 
to
.IR file .
Defaults to
.I .xss-log
in the directory
.I xss-button
was started from.
.SH X DEFAULTS
This program consists of essentially a single Athena Label widget.
The program's useful resources are:
.TP 8
.B xscreensaver (\fPclass\fB Command)
Specifies the screen saver driver to run.  Same as the
.B \-xss
option.
.TP 8
.B activateCommand (\fPclass\fB Command)
Specifies the command to run to activate the screen saver.  Same as
the
.B \-activate
option.
.TP 8
.B prefsCommand (\fPclass\fB Command)
Specifies the command to run to change screen saver preferences.  Same 
as the
.B \-prefs
option.
.TP 8
.B xrogerWidth (\fPclass\fB Width)
Specifies the width of the xss logo.  Same as the
.B \-logoWidth
option.  The width of the window is the width of this logo plus the
border width of the Label widget.
.TP 8
.B xrogerHeight (\fPclass\fB Height)
Specifies the height of the xss logo.  Same as the
.B \-logoHeight
option.  The height of the window is the height of this logo plus the
border width of the Label widget.
.TP 8
.B redirect (\fPclass\fB Redirect)
A boolean value specifying whether standard output and standard error
of child processes should be redirected.  Same as the
.B \-redirect
and
.B \-noredirect
options.  Defaults to True.
.TP 8
.B logFile (\fPclass\fB LogFile)
The name of the file to send stdout and stderr to, if the
.B redirect
resource is True.  Same as the
.B \-logFile
option.  Defaults to an unqualified ".xss-log".
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xss (1),
.BR xss-command (1),
.BR xss-demo (1)
.SH BUGS
The logo should be resized when the window resizes.
.PP
The button should perhaps react more intelligently if there is already 
a screensaver running.  Right now it just dies.
.PP
The output from
.BR xss (1)
and related commands isn't really relevant to most users, and could
probably be suppressed somehow.
.PP
The default log file should probably have an actual directory attached 
to it.
.SH AUTHOR
David Maze (MIT Information Systems)
