.TH SYNCTREE 1 "May 6, 1988"
.UC
.SH NAME
synctree \- reconcile directory tree with original
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B synctree
[
.B \-v | \-q
] [
.B \-b
] [
.B \-nosrcrules
] [
.B \-s 
.I srcdir
] [
.B \-d
.I dstdir
]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Synctree
intelligently copies one directory tree to
another, according to a set of rules files found in both the source and
destination directory trees.
.I synctree
allows files to copied from the source to the destination, establish
symbolic links on the destination tree, and allows commands to be
executed when files are updated.

.I synctree
is useful for installing or updating systems, by reconciling the files
on the destination system with the original.  Depending on the rules
files, directories and files on the destination tree can be links to
the original, allowing them to remain on a file server.  Synctree
records what the modification times for files that it creates, so that
it can tell if a file has been independently modified on the
destination tree.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-v
Verbose mode.  Prints debugging level information.  Each occurrence of
this option increments the debugging level (and thus more will be
displayed).  The default setting is 1, which prints all file updates
that are transpiring.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet mode.  Does not inform user of what updates occur.
.TP
.B \-n
No-op mode.  No updates or deletions will be performed.  This mode is
useful for seeing what would occur, without causing any damage to the
destination tree.
.TP
.B \-nosrcrules
Rules files are only read from the destination directory tree.  Rules files
on the source tree are ignored.
.TP
.B \-s
Specifies the source directory tree.  The default is /server.
.TP
.B \-d
Specifies the destination directory tree.  The default is /.

.SH RULES
Rules for reconciling the source and destination trees can be found both
in the source tree
.BI (\.rconf) " and in the destination tree " (\.rconf\.local).
These files (which may be in any sub-directory and apply to that
directory downward) indicate the steps that should be taken to synctree
the two directory trees.  The rules files are parsed top-down, with
later actions in the rules files superceding earlier rules.
.PP
The available options in the rules files are:
.TP
.B map
Map files from the source directory to the destination directory.
.TP
.B copy
Copy files from the source directory to the destination directory.
.TP
.B link
Create symbolic links from the destination directory to the source
directory.
.TP
.B chase
Copy files, chasing symbolic links, from the source directory to the
destination directory.
.TP
.B ignore
Do not perform any actions on the listed files.
.TP
.B delete
Delete files from the destination directory.

.PP
The format of the majority of the actions is:
.TP
    <action> file [\-option \-option \.\.\.]
.TP
where file can be a wildcard expression.  Wildcard expressions consist
of:
.TP
    *
.TP
    [range of letters]
.TP
and can be suffixed by a semi-colon, followed by the file type
(r,l,d,b,c,s).

.PP
Some of the action-options available are:
.TP
.B copy \-p
This mode will preserve owner, group, and setuid/setgid information
during the copy.
.TP
.B copy/link \-f
This mode will force a copy, regardless of whether the source and
destination file types differ or the destination file was more recent
than the source.

.SH AUTHOR
Tim Shepard,
with some input from Mark Reinhold and Stan Zanarotti.
Re-written by Richard Basch and Ezra Peisach, MIT Project Athena.
.SH FILES
.ta 3i
.nf
 .rconf			Rules files on source directory tree
 .rconf.local		Rules files on destination directory tree
 .reconcile_dates.{dir,pag}	Database where file modification times are
				stored
.fi
.SH BUGS
Synctree is still under development, and under documented.
