.\" Copyright 1989 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.\"
.\" For copying and distribution information,
.\" please see the file <mit-copyright.h>.
.\"
.TH KINIT 1 "Kerberos Version 4.0" "MIT Project Athena"
.SH NAME
kinit \- Kerberos login utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kinit
[
.B \-irvls
]
[
.I user[.instance][@realm]
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I kinit
command is used to login to the
Kerberos
authentication and authorization system.
Note that only registered
Kerberos
users (called
.I principals
) can use the
Kerberos
system.
For information about registering as a
Kerberos
user,
see the
.I kerberos(1)
manual page.
.PP
The optional argument is a Kerberos principal name, which may
simply be a user name.  It may also specify an instance and/or
a realm name.  If no argument is supplied, 
.I kinit
prompts for a user name.
.PP
.I kinit
then prompts for your Kerberos password,
and tries to authenticate your login with the Kerberos
server for the local realm (or for the realm you specified).
.PP
If
Kerberos
authenticates the login attempt,
.I kinit
retrieves your initial ticket and puts it in the ticket file specified by
your KRBTKFILE environment variable.
If this variable is undefined,
your ticket will be stored in the
.IR /tmp
directory,
in the file
.I tktuid ,
where
.I uid
specifies your user identification number.
.PP
Make sure you use the
.I kdestroy
command to destroy any active tickets before you end your login session.
You may want to put the
.I kdestroy
command in your
.I \.logout
file so that your tickets will be destroyed automatically when you logout.
.PP
The options to
.I kinit
are as follows:
.TP 7
.B \-i
.I kinit
prompts you for a
Kerberos
instance.  It's usually easier to specify the entire
principal name on the command line.
.TP
.B \-r
.I kinit
prompts you for a
Kerberos
realm.
This option lets you authenticate yourself with a remote
Kerberos
server.  It's usually easier to specify the entire
principal name on the command line.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode.
.I kinit
prints the name of the ticket file used, and
a status message indicating the success or failure of
your login attempt.
.TP
.B \-l
.I kinit
prompts you for a ticket lifetime in minutes.  Due to protocol
restrictions in Kerberos Version 4, this value must be between 5 and
1275 minutes.
.TP
.B \-s
Instead of using a password to prove who you are,
.I kinit
prompts you with a challenge to be entered into a
Digital Pathways SNK-4 authentication token.  (This requires
that your secret SNK-4 key has been added to the Kerberos database
using the 
.I "kadmin snk"
command.)  Example:
.nofill

 % kinit -s username
 Challenge: 123456
 Response:12345678
 % klist
 Ticket file:	/tmp/tkt86
 Principal:	username.+SNK4@REALM.ORG

 Issued           Expires          Principal
 Dec 31 18:35:30  Dec 32 04:35:30
                              krbtgt.REALM.ORG@REALM.ORG

 or

 % kinit -s username
 Challenge #1: 123456
 Response #1:12345678
 Challenge #2: 789012
 Response #2:78901234
 %
.fill
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
kerberos(1), kdestroy(1), klist(1), kadmin(8)
.SH AUTHORS
Steve Miller, MIT Project Athena/Digital Equipment Corp.
.br
Clifford Neuman, MIT Project Athena
