.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992-1994 Michael A. Cooper.
.\" This software may be freely distributed provided it is not sold for 
.\" profit and the author is credited appropriately.
.\"
.\" $Id: sysinfo.cf.man,v 1.1.1.1 1996-10-07 20:16:47 ghudson Exp $
.\" 
.TH sysinfo.cf 5 "3 November 1994"
.ds ]W USC-UCS
.SH NAME
sysinfo.cf \- Configuration File for sysinfo
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBDefine | \fIType | StringKey | NumericKey | Value1 | Value 2\fR
.br
.sp
\fBDevice | \fIName | Type\fB/[\fISubType\fB]\fI | NumericID | 
Model | Description | Flags | DevFiles\fR
.br
.sp
\fBInclude \fIFileName\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sysinfo.cf
files are parsed by the
.B sysinfo 
program.  Text starting with ``#'' and continuing 
to the end of the line is
ignored.  Each line starts with a specific keyword as described below.
All leading and trailing white space (space and TAB characters) for
each field is removed before parsing.
All keywords are case insensitive.
The valid keywords are:
.IP "\fBDefine \fIfields\fR"
Definetion.  Each
field is seperated by a ``|'' character.  Any fields that are not
specified are initialized to NULL.
The
.I StringKey
and/or
.I NumericKey
fields are used in matching search criteria.
The specification for each field follows:
.RS
.IP \fIType\fR
Specify the definetion type.  The following 
.I Type
values are allowed:
\fB
CPU,
Category,
KArch,
Kernel,
NetType,
OBP,
Part,
SysConf,
SysModel,
TapeInfo,
VPD
\fR
.IP \fIStringKey\fR
A string to use as a key.
.IP \fINumericKey\fR
A numeric value to use as a key.
.IP \fIValue1\fR
A string to return for the entry.
.IP \fIValue2\fR
A string to return for the entry.
.RE
.IP "\fBDevice \fIfields\fR"
Device specification.  Each
field is seperated by a ``|'' character.  Any fields that are not
specified are initialized to NULL.
The specification for each field follows:
.RS
.IP \fIName\fR
The name of the device.
( e.g. 
.B sd,
.B cgsix
)
.IP "\fIType\fB/[\fISubType\fB]\fR"
The type of device.  
The
.I Type
value is used to determine how to 
.I probe
the device and what device type label to assign to it.
If 
.I SubType
is specified, then the
.I Type
field specifies how to
.I probe
the device and the
.I SubType
field specifies what device type label to assign.
The valid keywords are:
.br
\fB
Bus,
CDROM,
CPU,
Device,
DiskCtlr,
DiskDrive,
FrameBuffer,
Generic,
KeyBoard,
Memory,
NetIF,
Pseudo,
TapeCtlr,
TapeDrive
\fR
.IP \fINumericID\fR
Specifies a unique numeric identifier for a particuliar device type.
This field is typically used to find a device by a numeric value
returned from the kernel.
.IP \fIModel\fR
The device's model.
.IP \fIDescription\fR
A description of the device.
.IP \fIFlags\fR
The 
.I Flags
field may contain either a valid keyword or a numeric value.
Numeric values are used in a device-type specific manner by the
device type's probe routine.
The valid keywords are:
.RS
.IP \fBDefInfo\fR
Use default device definetion information.
Usage varies by device type.
.IP \fBLenCmp\fR
Compare device name by length.
.IP \fBNoUnit\fR
Don't add a unit number to the device's name.
.IP \fBZombie\fR
If the device is present, treat it as if it were
alive regardless of whether the kernel has
indicated so.
.RE
.IP \fIDevFiles\fR
A list of space seperated device files that provide access
to the device.
Each file may contain a 
.B `%d'
which will be expanded to be the device's unit number.
.RE
.IP "\fBInclude \fIFileName\fR"
Read and parse a
.B sysinfo.cf
file called
.I FileName.
Parsing of the current file resumes on the next line when finished
with
.I FileName.
If
.I FileName
does not exist, sysinfo will silently continue parsing the current file.
.I FileName
may contain variables that are expanded at runtime.
Variable names are enclosed inside of
.B ${}
or
.B $()
and are case insensitive.
The following variables are available:
.RS
.IP \fB${ConfDir}\fR
The path to the 
.B sysinfo
configuration directory.
.IP \fB${DefConfFile}\fR
The name of the default 
.B sysinfo.cf
configuration file.
( e.g.
.B Default.cf
)
.IP \fB${OSname}\fR
The name of the operating system.
( e.g.
.B SunOS
)
.IP \fB${OSver}\fR
The operating system version number.
( e.g.
.B 4.1.3
)
.IP \fB${OSmajver}\fR
The operating system major version number.
( e.g. for 
.B 4.1.3
the value would be
.B 4
)
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Michael A. Cooper
.br
University Computing Services
.br
University of Southern California
.br
mcooper@usc.edu
.SH SEE ALSO
sysinfo(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH BUGS
