.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii gnomemeeting.1
.\"
.TH gnomemeeting 1 "20 March 2004" Linux "Version 1.00"
.SH NAME
gnomemeeting \- H.323 Videoconferencing for UN*X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnomemeeting [-d level] [-c URL]
.\" .B [--disable-sound] [--enable-sound]
.\" .B [--espeaker=HOSTNAME:PORT] [--version] [--usage] [--gdk-debug=FLAGS]
.\" .B [--gdk-no-debug=FLAGS] [--display=DISPLAY] [--sync] [--no-xshm]
.\" .B [--name=NAME] [--class=CLASS] [--gxid_host=HOST] [--gxid_port=PORT]
.\" .B [--xim-preedit=STYLE] [--xim-status=STYLE] [--gtk-debug=FLAGS]
.\" .B [--gtk-no-debug=FLAGS] [--g-fatal-warnings] [--gtk-module=MODULE]
.\" .B [--disable-crash-dialog] [--sm-client-id=ID] [--sm-config-prefix=PREFIX]
.\" .B [--sm-disable]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B GnomeMeeting
is a H.323 Voip, Telephony and Video Conferencing application which uses the H.323 protocol (provided by the OpenH323 library). It can connect to a variety of other H323 applications including Microsoft NetMeeting. It also supports ILS (the Microsoft version of LDAP) servers. GnomeMeeting can work with or without a webcam, and is able to create pure audio communications or traditionnal audio+video communications. GnomeMeeting has been designed for the GNOME desktop and therefore uses
.BR gconfd-2 (1)
for storing its userdata. It offers to configure almost every option from within the GUI. Command-line options include 
.B -d
to turn on debugging during calls.
.B -c 
to call another URL.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -d level
turn on debugging (on the console), level should be between 1 and 4.
.IP -c URL
Calls the given URL. GnomeMeeting can be running or not when invoking that option. H.323 and CALLTO URLs are supported.

.SH FILES
.I /etc/gconf/gconf.xml.defaults/apps/gnomemeeting/
.RS
The system wide configuration file. See
.BR gconf-config (1)
for further details on gconf. (The actual place can differ depending on your system's configuration)
.RE
.I ~/.gconf/apps/gnomemeeting
.RS
Per user configuration file. See
.BR gconf-config (1)
for further details.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
On startup GnomeMeeting reads the system-wide gconf schemas
(like every other GNOME2 app should do) from
.IR /etc/gconf/gconf.xml.defaults/apps .
Every modification of the gconf keys using the GUI, gconftool or gconf-editor is reflected in real-time by GnomeMeeting.

.SH DOCUMENTATION
More documentation is available in the manual available through GnomeMeeting's Help menu. There is also a FAQ at:
http://www.gnomemeeting.org

.SH GETTING HELP
Feel free to join #gnomemeeting on irc.gnome.org (GIMPnet) or the ML at:

http://mail.gnome.org/mailman/listinfo/gnomemeeting-list

.B after
having read the FAQ at 

http://www.gnomemeeting.org/ .

.SH AUTHOR
Damien Sandras <dsandras at seconix dot com>

.SH OTHER INFO
The webpage for GnomeMeeting is at
http://www.gnomemeeting.org.
You can find info about GnomeMeeting there and download the latest version.
Either as packages for all major distributions or as sourcecode. Patched version of the libs are available, if neccessary.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2000-2004 Damien Sandras
.br
This is free software licensed under the GPLv2; see the LICENSE file in the source for copying conditions. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gconf-config (1),
.BR gconfd-1 (1),
.BR gconfd-2 (1),
.BR gconftool-1 (1),
.BR gconftool-2 (1),
.BR gconfigger (1)

OpenH323 and PWLib can be found at http://openh323.sourceforge.net


